



# Calibration Suite for Infrared Thermography Devices

## Background

Calibration of infrared thermography devices such often a tedious and time consuming process that is critical for successful research. Calibrations are especially important for Infrared cameras since the response of the detector is highly dependent on the physical attributes of the device configuration and environmental variables. Factors that affect camera calibrations include but are not limited to the following variables:

* Distance from the camera to the radiation source
* Transmissivity of optics and filters
* Uniformity of the blackbody
* Humidity, temperature and composition of intermediate participating medium 
* Non uniformity of detector response 
* Choice of region of interest (ROI) during calibration 
* Sensor integration time
* Settings of lenses (f-stop etc.)


This software package aims to streamline current methodologies, reduce the learning curve and increase the consistency of IR device calibration. Streamlining will be accomplished by aggregating and standardizing the process into a single program of central area since in the past this has been a distributed process involving multiple pieces of software with each user coming up with there own method. Streamlining and standardizing this process will also decrease the learning curve of the calibrations as well as reduce the propensity for error in new users. Users of this software tool would be those that conduct research or measurements requiring blackbody calibrations of IR cameras.

## Functionality

In order to condense the blackbody calibration into one software package the software will have to interface across multiple different languages and packages. The tasks that the software will have to perform are as follows

#### Interface with the blackbody

The software must interface with the blackbody in order to control the temperature of the cavity according to the calibration schedule. A cool down process will also have to be conducted to prevent damage to the device. The blackbody interface is conducted through an RS232 interface. This control will likely be done in C with the Python writing and compiling the C code according to user inputs unless a purely Python communication solution can be found. This control functionality will eliminate the need for a person to manually adjust the blackbody every time the temperature needs to be changed.

#### Interface with the IR camera

The software will have to acquire images from the camera as well as control the settings of the camera to match the experimental conditions. The camera connects through a Gigabit Ethernet (GigE) interface for acquisition and control. At this time it appears that the camera will need to be interfaced using the FLIR BHP SDK to interface with the camera which is a large unknown. 

#### Image analysis

A region of interest will also be input by the user or determined by software that will be used to isolate the pixels that see the blackbody. Image analysis will be conducted to determine the uniformity of the blackbody radiation to help determine if the blackbody is in steady state. The data collected at steady state will be used to generate the photon counts vs intensity curve. If time allows other image analysis/statistics may be implemented pending feedback from users. Bad pixel correction will also be implemented in the image analysis using either a spatial average or some other methods to replace data from bad pixels with interpolated data from surrounding pixels. 

#### Photon counts vs intensity curve generation

The photon counts vs. intensity curve is generated by correlating the camera's response curve and the response curve of materials that the radiation is transmitted through to get to the detector. This analysis involves importing the transmissivity curves for the media (including the RADCAL data for the participating medium) and then overlaying them onto the camera detector response curve. The common regions will then be integrated to obtain a counts vs. intensity function. This function is the desired output of the software that enables the user to perform additional analysis based on experimental requirements.

#### Non Uniformity Correction (NUC)

If time allows tool for the NUC process may be developed. The NUC process is used to determine the offset and gains of the individual camera detector pixels. This process is important for data fidelity but is not as time consuming as the blackbody calibration itself so it is of lower priority. 

#### Extra Features

If time allows the software will also have the option to send status updates to the user in case an error arises or the calibration is completed.



## Packages and Integrations

The following packages and integrations are anticipated for this project

* RADCAL (participating environmental medium correction)
* C (interfacing with the blackbody controller)
* OpenCV (interfacing with the camera using GigE Vision)
* NumPy
* PIL
* SciPy
* Scikit-image
* BHP SDK (interfacing with the camera)

## Building off of previous work

  For this project I will be relying on the experience and input of students in the CIRE lab who have worked extensively with IR cameras and black body calibrations to guide the features, inputs and outputs of the software. I will also use a set of instructions for performing a manual calibration to guide the software. The biggest difference between this project and previous work/existing code is that it will be automated and all in one package. This automation will save upwards of eight hours per black body calibration of time spent monitoring the device. 

## References 

David L. Perry, [Eustace L. Dereniak](https://www.spiedigitallibrary.org/profile/Eustace.Dereniak-5649), "Linear theory of nonuniformity correction in infrared staring sensors," Optical Engineering 32(8), 1 August 1993. <https://doi.org/10.1117/12.145601>

Brandon Lane, Eric Whitenton, "Calibration and Measurement Procedures for a High Magnification Thermal Camera" NIST, December 2015, http://dx.doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8098

