A new software for the deconvolution, or peak-fitting, of UV-visible spectra with respect to a novel analysis method is needed. Our research group possess one of only a few existing, state-of-the-art instruments that can measurement such spectra during the conditions seen during key steps of the nuclear fuel cycle. While several peak-fitting codes exists in github repositories (github.com/hickey221/Alchromy), they are, at a glance, not sufficient to incorporate the time-resolved, anti-scatter, multi-solvent spectra from this new instrument. Our group would benefit from filling this gap first so that we can perform a proper chemical kinetic analysis.

UV-visible spectroscopy has been used for many years as an analytical tool for chemists yet still new ways of improving this method are appearing [1]. One very new method combines two components: rapid scanning for rapid (millisecond) kinetics, and an integrating sphere (nearly 4pi) to eliminate light lost due to scattering. The deviation from standard Beer-Lambert Law cuvette approach is that the integrating sphere introduces a distribution of path-lengths from 1 to 30 cm. Optical studies for the measurement of this distribution are relatively recent [2].

It is our main goal to develop a peak-fitting software for rapid kinetics monitoring of chemical species during a chemical separation that can work with our raw data. An appropriate graphic user interface (GUI) should accompany this software. If we find during development that a similar (non-proprietary) code already exists, then there are likely areas in which it can be improved (i.e. incorporating the time-resolved, anti-scatter, or multi-solvent components)

References
1 Ilaria Calabrese, Marcello Merli, Maria Liria Turco Liveri, “Deconvolution procedure of the UV–vis spectra. A powerful tool for the estimation of the binding of a model drug to specific solubilisation loci of bio-compatible aqueous surfactant-forming micelle”, Spectrochimica Acta Part A: Molecular and Biomolecular Spectroscopy 142 (2015) 150–158
2 Jane Hodgkinson, Dackson Masiyano, and Ralph P. Tatam, "Using integrating spheres as absorption cells: path-length distribution and application of Beer's law," Appl. Opt. 48, 5748-5758 (2009)
